= breadcrumbs_for

Breadcrumbs Rails helper.

Breadcrumbs helper for Rails done in a rails way.

Built on url_for, your routes, model names and i18n.

== Installation
 gem install breadcrumbs_for

== Requirements
Was tested with Rails 3

== Usage
Let say:
* You have a Blog and Post models in your app.
* Posts are nested in Blogs.
* You have :admin namespace to manage them.
* Blog and Post have a 'title' or 'name' methods

===Examples:
 breadcrumbs_for :blogs                         # Home / Blogs
 breadcrumbs_for :blogs, 'new'                  # Home / Blogs / New
 breadcrumbs_for :blogs, @blog                  # Home / Blogs / My blog
 breadcrumbs_for :blogs, @blog, 'edit'          # Home / Blogs / My blog / Edit
 breadcrumbs_for @blog                          # Home / My blog
 breadcrumbs_for :blogs, @blog, [@blog, @post]  # Home / Blogs / My blog / My Post

 breadcrumbs_for [:admin,:blogs], [:admin, @blog]
 breadcrumbs_for [:admin,:blogs], ['edit', :admin, @blog, @post]
 breadcrumbs_for [:admin,:blogs], [:admin, @blog], ['edit', :admin, @blog, @post]

etc.

Note: There is a shorter alias crumbs_for, so you can do:
 crumbs_for :blogs, @blog

You can even do the following:
 breadcrumbs_for {:controller=>'blogs', :action=>'index', :crumb=>'All Blogs'}, @blog
Note on :crumb=>'All Blogs'. Here you need to provide the breadcrumb caption text directly via the :crumb key.

If you have an admin_path in your routes you can do:
 breadcrumbs_for :admin, [:admin,:blogs], ['new', :admin, @blog], :crumbs_options=>{:root=>false}

=== Produced HTML
By default it will render breadcrumbs as an unordered list.

The following code

  <%= crumbs_for :posts, 'New' %>

will produce html:

  <ul class="breadcrumbs">
   <li class="crumb root">
     <a href="/" class="crumb home_crumb">Home</a>
   </li>
   <li class="sep">/</li>
   <li class="crumb ">
     <a href="/posts" class="crumb">Posts</a>
   </li>
   <li class="sep">/</li>
   <li class="crumb active">
     New
   </li>
  </ul>

You can also render bredcrumbs in plain.

The following code

  <%= crumbs_for :posts, 'New', :crumbs_options => { :type => :plain } %>

will produce html:

  <a href="/" class="crumb home_crumb">Home</a>
  <span class="sep">/</span>
  <a href="/admin/themes" class="crumb">Themes</a>
  <span class="sep">/</span>
  New

=== Customize
* Don't inculde the Home(root) link:
 breadcrumbs_for :blogs, @blog, :crumbs_options=>{:root=>false}
* By default breadcrumbs are rendered as a ul(html unorderd list). You can disable this:
 breadcrumbs_for :blogs, @blog, :crumbs_options=>{:type=>:plain}
* The default separator is /. Chage it:
 breadcrumbs_for :blogs, @blog, :crumbs_options=>{:sep=>'&rarr;'}

=== Custom captions and i18n
Define captions for breadcrumbs in your locale file:
 en:
  breadcrumbs:
    root: 'Home'
    actions:
      new: 'Add new'
      edit: 'Edit one'
    names:
      admin: 'Manage'
      blogs: 'The blogs'
      posts: 'The posts'

=== Tips & Tricks
When providing action as a String it will include action name in breadcrumb caption.

  crumbs_for :blogs, ['edit', @blog]  # => Home / Blogs / Edit My blog

When providing action as a Symbol it will skip action name in breadcrumb caption.

  crumbs_for :blogs, [:edit, @blog]  # => Home / Blogs / My blog

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

Patches/Pull Requests are welcome!

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Commit.
* Send a pull request.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2010 Dmitry Naumov. Released under the MIT license. See LICENSE for details.
